Hi.
Within this lecture of going to create our first truck so that we will understand everything I told
you in the previous lecture.
In a much better way.
So rather than selecting the single wheel app I'm gonna go for Mac OS and select the command line tool.
Remember this provides us the opportunity to run our codes inside the command line rather than a simulator.
So we're going to be fast like we did in the intermediate swift section.
OK so I'm going to call this something like advanced swift project OK and we're going to see a lot of
concepts inside of this project.
We're not going to see on these trucks but we're going to see other concepts like tuples guard lat as
well.
So let me make this into a full screen and if you have skipped the Intermediate section for some reason
if you just came here directly as you can see if I hit run on here it will just compile this code on
my Mac without to running a simulator and we will see the results in log immediately of course.
This is the first build so it's taking its time but it will be much more faster along the way.
So rather than printing Hello world I'm going to create a struct and I'm going to print this trucks.
So how do we do that.
I'm going to follow the same example like we did in the intermediates with section.
So I'm going to come over here to create a new file.
This will be a swift file and in my first swift file I'm going to have a class of musician.
OK I'm going to call this musicians struct rather than class.
And don't worry I'm going to have a musician class as well.
I'm going to create another files swift file.
I'm going to call this musician class so I will create one struct and one class and they will have all
the same attributes.
So let's start with class because we already know how to do that.
So in order to create a class we use keyword class.
And I will say musician class.
So under my musician class I will have three properties.
I will have a name which is a string I will have an H which is an integer and I will have an instrument
which again is a string.
So if I do that I will get an error from this class because we don't have the initializing function
yet.
Remember we have to have a constructor here in order to start and create an object out of this class.
So if I say in it it will be okay for us and inside of this in it I'm going to take a name input and
this will be a string I'm going to take an age input.
This will be an integer and I'm going to take an instrument input as well.
This will be again as shrink.
So under this in it I'm going to say self that name is name input.
Ok so s that age is age input and s dot instrument is instruments input.
So far so good.
Now we can create an object out of this class and this will be the first function to be executed when
we do that.
So we assign the attributes which related values.
So let's do that with musicians struct.
Right.
So let's come over here first.
Let's try to create an object out of this class.
So let me say let.
Class James for example.
And this will be a musician class object.
And then I do that it has to autocomplete but it doesn't work right now.
So I'm going to delete this and hit command B on my computer to build this and then I can call musician
class.
If I open parentheses it will show me the parameters and for name input I'm going to go for James for
age 50 and for instrument guitar.
And let me try to print out the class.
James dot age for example.
So if I run this I will see 50 in my logs as expected.
Now let's do that with struct.
Let's go to a struct rather than class.
I'm going to start by saying struct.
So we use the actual keyword struct.
In this case as well so struct musicians struct.
OK.
And let me open this parentheses we're going to have the same attributes here and name and H and then
instruments.
So our instrument will be strict.
So maybe you realize the difference right now even though I don't have any initialize or I don't get
any error so if I do command B I still don't get any error.
So this is a great feature of struct.
If I come over here to Maine I can say let's struct James and I will create an instance of this musician
struct.
Okay.
If I open parentheses it will automatically show me the parameters.
So this is called a free initialized and we get this initialize or even without writing the initialize
or itself.
This is a great feature so I can just come over here and give the exact same attributes like James 50
and guitar and I can come over here and say struct James dots H.
And it will give me the same results.
So let me run this.
And here you go.
We have two 50s over here.
So this is good.
We know oh how to create struct and we know how to create class right now and in order to understand
the technical differences between them.
We had to dig a little bit deeper.
For example we have to understand the two immutability and we have to understand the difference behave
beef behavior difference between the reference type and value type.
So remember struct is a value type where as class is a reference type.
So they have some real major differences in terms of technicality.
And we get to talk about all of this things in the following lectures.
Don't worry.
Right now you have seen how easy it is to work with struct and how easy it is to create one.
So Reagan stop here and following the next lecture we're gonna dig a little bit deeper to understand
it more comprehensively.